Notes from Wednesday's class:



Warmup Questions:

**What is unix?**
    A family of operating systems based on a central idea / framework.

**What is a Shell?**
    A program used to interact with your operating system - typically an
        interactive command prompt.

**What is Git?**
    A version control system used to organize code over time, maintain various
        versions, and collaborate from a central location on a server.




Today's Main Questions:
-----------------------

##### 1. Where is 'ls' located?

##### 2. How large is my `/.cshrc?`

##### 3. How do I prevent people from reading my work?

##### 4. How do I create a shortcut to my course dropbox?

##### 5. Where did I put that cpp file?




Now let's talk about filesystems (located on your hard drive)
    
    - organized in a hierarchy
        - root
            - parent
                - child
                - child
            - parent
                -child

                etc.

    ex:     / _ afs - network affiliated file system (lives on a network drive)
                bin -  binary executables
                etc -  configs
                var - application data
                lib - libraries
                tmp - scratch space (anyone can write to this dir)
                usr - user binaries (programs needed for OS to function)

            [note: this is volatile - may be deleted upon reboot (inram)]
                /var/tmp is non-volatile and open to anyone.

    A hard drive will likely be divided into partitions (my arch installation 
        has 4 partitions - boot (fat32), root (ext4), swap (swap), home (ext4)



    Relative path:  include ../../something as a reference to some current path
    Absolute path:  relative to the root directory (i.e. /bin/usr/)


Answer to question 1:

    The $PATH variable (environment variable) holds directories in which your
    computer searches for a command (i.e. asks each dir if they have ls)
        Add a directory to your path variable to always have it available @cmd 
        

Answer to question 3:

    File Permissions:
        
        Files have associated flags:  read, write, execute (r w x)
    
        A file has different permissions for the owner, owner group, and others.

        We represent the three flags combined in octal since there are 8 comb.

   owener   r w x
            1 1 0  --> 6

owner_group r w x
            1 0 0  --> 4

   others   r w x
            1 0 0  --> 4

            change permissions using chmod command


In Unix, a file is simply an entry in a table that contains inode numbers.
These are called inode tables.

An inode is a data structure that contains all information about a file other
than it's name and contents. (permissions, location, last modified, etc.)

general layout:
    - root
        - parent
            -child
            -child
        - parent
            -child
            -child

/bin    -   binary executables
/var    -   application data
/etc    -   config files
/usr    -   user binary executables
/tmp    -   scratch space, anyone can work here
/lib    -   contains libraries

/afs    -   network affiliated file system



Hard links are another file that links to the same underlying inode as an
exisitng file.  Should one of these two files be deleted, the remaining will
still be intact.  All hard links to an inode must be deleted before the actual
data contained in the inode is erased.

Soft links simply reference the name of another file - useful to span
filesystems, but does not work if the file it is linked to has it's name
changed, location moved, or contents deleted.






    TO DO: 
    
    - read more about inode data structures, which hold all file
        information other than name and the file's actual data.

    - changing a name of a file in the system doesn't actually move any data,
        it simply modifies the inode!

    - draw out hierarchy of file data on board

    - 















