FRIDAYYY
--------

#### Process

A process is a **running instance** of a program.

sidenote: It's Charles' birthday!

The 'ps' command displays current processes from the *process table.*

##### What programs am I running?

ps ux | wc -l

shows the number of processes running right now

Process Table:

    - PID           - Process ID
    - PPID          - Parent Process ID (who started this process)
    - Priority      - tells scheduler where it should be put in queue
    - Niceness      - how flexible is changing the process priority`jj
    - TTY           - which terminal is it running in
    - UID / GUID    -  who's running the process

But only one process can be run at a time (per core) on a CPU... so processes have different states.

    - Running       - currently running
    - Ready         - ready but don't have token yet (to get on CPU)
    - Waiting       - something needs to be done on processes behalf
    - Terminated    - X|  forever

    So a scheduler picks the order in which processes are run (based on priority and niceness).

##### How do I terminate a process?

    To kill a process:   'kill -TERM {PID}'
                         'kill -kill {PID}' (which is also kill 9)


##### How do I change my identity?
    



##### How do I save output of a command?

Redirect the output to a file instead of stdout:
        
    'ls -l > log.txt'

##### How do you spam your friend's terminal?

'write asmith'

or for fun: 'cowsay "happy birthday" | write asmith'


##### How do you ignore error messages?

Send the errors to /dev/null:

ls -l 2> /dev/null


##### How do you input multiple lines of text?

Use the << EOF at the end, which goes up until an EOF signal (ctrl+d)


##### How do you sort through processes and kill one?

Review lecture from this point on.












