WEdnesday
---------

#### How do we translate characters?

Use the utility `tr`:  Define the input set and a second set (like subspaces in
linear algebra), and tr will map the first set onto the second!  

Ex:  `echo "I got my city doing front flips" | tr a-z A-Z` 
    
    (note: do not use [a-z] for these arguments into tr)

    `echo "I got my city doing front flips" | tr -d '[:space:]'`



#### How do we extract fields?

Use the utility `cut`:

Ex:  `echo "i'm not that innocent" | cut -d " " -f 1`

    `echo "i'm not that innocent" | cut -d " " -f 2`

    `echo "i'm not that innocent" | cut -d " " -f 2-`

    `echo "i'm not that innocent" | cut -d "'" -f 1`

    `echo "i'm not that innocent" | cut -d " " -c 4`

    Note: `-d` specifies the delimiter between words.  `-f` specifies a word.
    `-c` specifies characters to print.



#### How do we search for patterns?

Use the utility `grep`:

Ex:  `cat /etc/passwd | grep '4[0-9]*7'`

    `cat /etc/passwd | grep -o '4[0-9]*7'`

    Note:  `-o` only prints the match rather than the whole line containing the
    match.

    View numbers that start with even digits and end with odd:

    `cat /etc/passwd | grep -P -o '[2468]\d*[13579]'`

Fun grep stuff:

    Scrape email addresses off a webpage:

    `curl -sL http://yld.me/aBG | grep -Eo '[[:alnum:]]+@[[:alnum:].]+' | sort |
uniq`

    Scrape titles off same page:

    `curl -sL http://yld.me/aBG | grep -Eo '[A-Za-z -]+ Prof[^<]+' | sort | uniq`





#### How do we convert a file from DOS / Windows to Unix?o

Write a small script dos2unix.sh which uses the command `tr -d '\r'`:

    `./dos2unix.sh < dos.sh > unix.sh`


#### How do we modify text streams?

Use the utility `sed`:


    `echo "monkeys love bananas" | sed 's|monkeys|gorrillaz|'`

    Note: the use of `|` instead of `/` as a delimiter in sed is useful when
    searching for a replacing path names like '/usr/bin' with /usr/python'










